=encoding utf-8


=head1 Name


contributing_changes - Contributing Changes


=head1 Getting Sources



L<Mercurial|https://www.mercurial-scm.org> is used
to store source code.
The L<repository|http://hg.nginx.org/nginx> can be cloned
with the following command:

    
    hg clone http://hg.nginx.org/nginx






=head1 Formatting Changes



Changes should be formatted according to the code style used by nginx.
Code formatting should not rely on such editor features like syntax
highlighting or automatic line breaking.
Below are some basic rules:

=over




=item *

maximum text width is 80 characters



=item *

indentation is four spaces



=item *

no tabs



=item *

logical code blocks in a file are separated with two empty lines



=back


Examine how existing nginx sources are formatted and mimic this style
in your code.
Changes will more likely be accepted if style corresponds to the surrounding
code.





Commit the changes to create a Mercurial
L<changeset|https://www.mercurial-scm.org/wiki/ChangeSet>.
Please ensure that the specified
L<e-mail|https://www.mercurial-scm.org/wiki/QuickStart#Setting_a_username>
address and real name of the change’s author are correct.





The commit message should have a single-line synopsis followed by verbose
description after an empty line.
It is desirable that the first line is no longer than 67 symbols.
The resulting changeset as a patch can be obtained using the
C<hg export> command:

    
    # HG changeset patch
    # User Filipe Da Silva <username@example.com>
    # Date 1368089668 -7200
    #      Thu May 09 10:54:28 2013 +0200
    # Node ID 2220de0521ca2c0b664a8ea1e201ce1cb90fd7a2
    # Parent  822b82191940ef309cd1e6502f94d50d811252a1
    Mail: removed surplus ngx_close_connection() call.
    
    It is already called for a peer connection a few lines above.
    
    diff -r 822b82191940 -r 2220de0521ca src/mail/ngx_mail_auth_http_module.c
    --- a/src/mail/ngx_mail_auth_http_module.c      Wed May 15 15:04:49 2013 +0400
    +++ b/src/mail/ngx_mail_auth_http_module.c      Thu May 09 10:54:28 2013 +0200
    @@ -699,7 +699,6 @@ ngx_mail_auth_http_process_headers(ngx_m
    
                         p = ngx_pnalloc(s->connection->pool, ctx->err.len);
                         if (p == NULL) {
    -                        ngx_close_connection(ctx->peer.connection);
                             ngx_destroy_pool(ctx->pool);
                             ngx_mail_session_internal_server_error(s);
                             return;






=head1 Before Submitting



Several points are worth to consider before submitting changes:

=over




=item *

The proposed changes should work properly on a wide range of
L<supported
platforms|index>.



=item *

Try to make it clear why the suggested change is needed, and provide a use
case, if possible.



=item *

Passing your changes through the test suite is a good way to ensure
that they do not cause a regression.
The L<repository|http://hg.nginx.org/nginx-tests> with
tests can be cloned with the following command:

    
    hg clone http://hg.nginx.org/nginx-tests





=back






=head1 Submitting Changes



The proposed changes should be sent to the
L<nginx development|support>
mailing list.
The preferred and convenient method of submitting changesets
is with the
L<patchbomb|https://www.mercurial-scm.org/wiki/PatchbombExtension>
extension.




=head1 License



Submitting changes implies granting project a permission to use it under
an appropriate L<license|../../LICENSE>.




