=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

ngx_http_rewrite_module - Module ngx_http_rewrite_module




=head1



The C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> module is used to
change request URI using PCRE regular expressions, return redirects, and
conditionally select configurations.





The C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> module directives are
processed in the following order:

=over




=item *

the directives of this module specified on the
L<ngx_http_core_module> level
are executed sequentially;



=item *

repeatedly:

=over




=item *

a
L<ngx_http_core_module>
is searched based on a request URI;



=item *

the directives of this module specified inside the found location
are executed sequentially;



=item *

the loop is repeated if a request URI was rewritten,
but not more than
L<10 times|ngx_http_core_module>.



=back





=back






=head1 Directives

=head2 break




B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





Stops processing the current set of
C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> directives.





If a directive is specified inside the
L<ngx_http_core_module>,
further processing of the request continues in this location.





Example:

    
    if ($slow) {
        limit_rate 10k;
        break;
    }









=head2 if


B<syntax:> if I<(I<C<condition>>) { B<...> } >



B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





The specified I<C<condition>> is evaluated.
If true, this module directives specified inside the braces are
executed, and the request is assigned the configuration inside the
C<if> directive.
Configurations inside the C<if> directives are
inherited from the previous configuration level.





A condition may be any of the following:

=over




=item *

a variable name; false if the value of a variable is an empty string
or “C<0>”;

B<NOTE>

Before version 1.0.1, any string starting with “C<0>”
was considered a false value.




=item *

comparison of a variable with a string using the
“C<=>” and “C<!=>” operators;



=item *

matching of a variable against a regular expression using the
“C<~>” (for case-sensitive matching) and
“C<~*>” (for case-insensitive matching) operators.
Regular expressions can contain captures that are made available for
later reuse in the C<$1>..C<$9> variables.
Negative operators “C<!~>” and “C<!~*>”
are also available.
If a regular expression includes the “C<}>”
or “C<;>” characters, the whole expressions should be enclosed
in single or double quotes.



=item *

checking of a file existence with the “C<-f>” and
“C<!-f>” operators;



=item *

checking of a directory existence with the “C<-d>” and
“C<!-d>” operators;



=item *

checking of a file, directory, or symbolic link existence with the
“C<-e>” and “C<!-e>” operators;



=item *

checking for an executable file with the “C<-x>”
and “C<!-x>” operators.



=back







Examples:

    
    if ($http_user_agent ~ MSIE) {
        rewrite ^(.*)$ /msie/$1 break;
    }
    
    if ($http_cookie ~* "id=([^;]+)(?:;|$)") {
        set $id $1;
    }
    
    if ($request_method = POST) {
        return 405;
    }
    
    if ($slow) {
        limit_rate 10k;
    }
    
    if ($invalid_referer) {
        return 403;
    }



B<NOTE>

A value of the C<$invalid_referer> embedded variable is set by the
L<ngx_http_referer_module> directive.








=head2 return


B<syntax:> return I<I<C<code>> [I<C<text>>]>


B<syntax:> return I<I<C<code>> I<C<URL>>>


B<syntax:> return I<I<C<URL>>>



B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





Stops processing and returns the specified I<C<code>> to a client.
The non-standard code 444 closes a connection without sending
a response header.





Starting from version 0.8.42, it is possible to specify
either a redirect URL (for codes 301, 302, 303, 307, and 308)
or the response body I<C<text>> (for other codes).
A response body text and redirect URL can contain variables.
As a special case, a redirect URL can be specified as a URI
local to this server, in which case the full redirect URL
is formed according to the request scheme (C<$scheme>) and the
L<ngx_http_core_module> and
L<ngx_http_core_module> directives.





In addition, a I<C<URL>> for temporary redirect with the code 302
can be specified as the sole parameter.
Such a parameter should start with the “C<http:E<sol>E<sol>>”,
“C<https:E<sol>E<sol>>”, or “C<$scheme>” string.
A I<C<URL>> can contain variables.






B<NOTE>

Only the following codes could be returned before version 0.7.51:
204, 400, 402 — 406, 408, 410, 411, 413, 416, and 500 — 504.



B<NOTE>

The code 307 was not treated as a redirect until versions 1.1.16 and 1.0.13.



B<NOTE>

The code 308 was not treated as a redirect until version 1.13.0.






See also the L<ngx_http_core_module> directive.







=head2 rewrite


B<syntax:> rewrite I<
    I<C<regex>>
    I<C<replacement>>
    [I<C<flag>>]>



B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





If the specified regular expression matches a request URI, URI is changed
as specified in the I<C<replacement>> string.
The C<rewrite> directives are executed sequentially
in order of their appearance in the configuration file.
It is possible to terminate further processing of the directives using flags.
If a replacement string starts with “C<http:E<sol>E<sol>>”,
“C<https:E<sol>E<sol>>”, or “C<$scheme>”,
the processing stops and the redirect is returned to a client.





An optional I<C<flag>> parameter can be one of:

=over



=item C<last>




stops processing the current set of
C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> directives and starts
a search for a new location matching the changed URI;



=item C<break>




stops processing the current set of
C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> directives
as with the L</break> directive;



=item C<redirect>




returns a temporary redirect with the 302 code;
used if a replacement string does not start with
“C<http:E<sol>E<sol>>”, “C<https:E<sol>E<sol>>”,
or “C<$scheme>”;



=item C<permanent>




returns a permanent redirect with the 301 code.




=back


The full redirect URL is formed according to the
request scheme (C<$scheme>) and the
L<ngx_http_core_module> and
L<ngx_http_core_module> directives.





Example:

    
    server {
        ...
        rewrite ^(/download/.*)/media/(.*)\..*$ $1/mp3/$2.mp3 last;
        rewrite ^(/download/.*)/audio/(.*)\..*$ $1/mp3/$2.ra  last;
        return  403;
        ...
    }







But if these directives are put inside the “C<E<sol>downloadE<sol>>”
location, the C<last> flag should be replaced by
C<break>, or otherwise nginx will make 10 cycles and
return the 500 error:

    
    location /download/ {
        rewrite ^(/download/.*)/media/(.*)\..*$ $1/mp3/$2.mp3 break;
        rewrite ^(/download/.*)/audio/(.*)\..*$ $1/mp3/$2.ra  break;
        return  403;
    }







If a I<C<replacement>> string includes the new request arguments,
the previous request arguments are appended after them.
If this is undesired, putting a question mark at the end of a replacement
string avoids having them appended, for example:

    
    rewrite ^/users/(.*)$ /show?user=$1? last;







If a regular expression includes the “C<}>”
or “C<;>” characters, the whole expressions should be enclosed
in single or double quotes.







=head2 rewrite_log


B<syntax:> rewrite_log I<C<on> E<verbar> C<off>>


B<default:> I<off>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





Enables or disables logging of C<ngx_http_rewrite_module>
module directives processing results
into the L<ngx_core_module> at
the C<notice> level.







=head2 set


B<syntax:> set I<I<C<$variable>> I<C<value>>>



B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





Sets a I<C<value>> for the specified I<C<variable>>.
The I<C<value>> can contain text, variables, and their combination.







=head2 uninitialized_variable_warn


B<syntax:> uninitialized_variable_warn I<C<on> E<verbar> C<off>>


B<default:> I<on>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>


B<context:> I<if>





Controls whether warnings about uninitialized variables are logged.







=head1 Internal Implementation



The C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> module directives
are compiled at the configuration stage into internal instructions
that are interpreted during request processing.
An interpreter is a simple virtual stack machine.





For example, the directives

    
    location /download/ {
        if ($forbidden) {
            return 403;
        }
    
        if ($slow) {
            limit_rate 10k;
        }
    
        rewrite ^/(download/.*)/media/(.*)\..*$ /$1/mp3/$2.mp3 break;
    }


will be translated into these instructions:

    
    variable $forbidden
    check against zero
        return 403
        end of code
    variable $slow
    check against zero
    match of regular expression
    copy "/"
    copy $1
    copy "/mp3/"
    copy $2
    copy ".mp3"
    end of regular expression
    end of code







Note that there are no instructions for the
L<ngx_http_core_module>
directive above as it is unrelated to the
C<ngx_http_rewrite_module> module.
A separate configuration is created for the L</if> block.
If the condition holds true, a request is assigned this configuration
where C<limit_rate> equals to 10k.





The directive

    
    rewrite ^/(download/.*)/media/(.*)\..*$ /$1/mp3/$2.mp3 break;


can be made smaller by one instruction if the first slash in the regular expression
is put inside the parentheses:

    
    rewrite ^(<emphasis>/</emphasis>download/.*)/media/(.*)\..*$ $1/mp3/$2.mp3 break;


The corresponding instructions will then look like this:

    
    match of regular expression
    copy $1
    copy "/mp3/"
    copy $2
    copy ".mp3"
    end of regular expression
    end of code






