=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

ngx_http_geo_module - Module ngx_http_geo_module




=head1



The C<ngx_http_geo_module> module creates variables
with values depending on the client IP address.




=head1 Example Configuration




    
    geo $geo {
        default        0;
    
        127.0.0.1      2;
        192.168.1.0/24 1;
        10.1.0.0/16    1;
    
        ::1            2;
        2001:0db8::/32 1;
    }






=head1 Directives

=head2 geo


B<syntax:> geo I<[I<C<$address>>] I<C<$variable>> { B<...> } >



B<context:> I<http>





Describes the dependency of values of the specified variable
on the client IP address.
By default, the address is taken from the C<$remote_addr> variable,
but it can also be taken from another variable (0.7.27), for example:

    
    geo $arg_remote_addr $geo {
        ...;
    }








B<NOTE>

Since variables are evaluated only when used, the mere existence
of even a large number of declared “C<geo>” variables
does not cause any extra costs for request processing.






If the value of a variable does not represent a valid IP address
then the “C<255.255.255.255>” address is used.





Addresses are specified either as prefixes in CIDR notation
(including individual addresses) or as ranges (0.7.23).

B<NOTE>

IPv6 prefixes are supported starting from versions 1.3.10 and 1.2.7.






The following special parameters are also supported:

=over



=item C<delete>




deletes the specified network (0.7.23).



=item C<default>




a value set to the variable if the client address does not
match any of the specified addresses.
When addresses are specified in CIDR notation,
“C<0.0.0.0E<sol>0>” and “C<::E<sol>0>”
can be used instead of C<default>.
When C<default> is not specified, the default
value will be an empty string.



=item C<include>




includes a file with addresses and values.
There can be several inclusions.



=item C<proxy>




defines trusted addresses (0.8.7, 0.7.63).
When a request comes from a trusted address,
an address from the C<X-Forwarded-For> request
header field will be used instead.
In contrast to the regular addresses, trusted addresses are
checked sequentially.

B<NOTE>

Trusted IPv6 addresses are supported starting from versions 1.3.0 and 1.2.1.




=item C<proxy_recursive>




enables recursive address search (1.3.0, 1.2.1).
If recursive search is disabled then instead of the original client
address that matches one of the trusted addresses, the last
address sent in C<X-Forwarded-For> will be used.
If recursive search is enabled then instead of the original client
address that matches one of the trusted addresses, the last
non-trusted address sent in C<X-Forwarded-For> will be used.



=item C<ranges>




indicates that addresses are specified as ranges (0.7.23).
This parameter should be the first.
To speed up loading of a geo base, addresses should be put in ascending order.




=back







Example:

    
    geo $country {
        default        ZZ;
        include        conf/geo.conf;
        delete         127.0.0.0/16;
        proxy          192.168.100.0/24;
        proxy          2001:0db8::/32;
    
        127.0.0.0/24   US;
        127.0.0.1/32   RU;
        10.1.0.0/16    RU;
        192.168.1.0/24 UK;
    }







The F<confE<sol>geo.conf> file could contain the following lines:

    
    10.2.0.0/16    RU;
    192.168.2.0/24 RU;







A value of the most specific match is used.
For example, for the 127.0.0.1 address the value “C<RU>”
will be chosen, not “C<US>”.





Example with ranges:

    
    geo $country {
        ranges;
        default                   ZZ;
        127.0.0.0-127.0.0.0       US;
        127.0.0.1-127.0.0.1       RU;
        127.0.0.1-127.0.0.255     US;
        10.1.0.0-10.1.255.255     RU;
        192.168.1.0-192.168.1.255 UK;
    }









