=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

ngx_http_userid_module - Module ngx_http_userid_module




=head1



The C<ngx_http_userid_module> module sets cookies
suitable for client identification.
Received and set cookies can be logged using the embedded variables
$uid_got and
$uid_set.
This module is compatible with the
L<mod_uid|http://www.lexa.ru/programs/mod-uid-eng.html>
module for Apache.




=head1 Example Configuration




    
    userid         on;
    userid_name    uid;
    userid_domain  example.com;
    userid_path    /;
    userid_expires 365d;
    userid_p3p     'policyref="/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CUR ADM OUR NOR STA NID"';






=head1 Directives

=head2 userid


B<syntax:> userid I<
    C<on> E<verbar>
    C<v1> E<verbar>
    C<log> E<verbar>
    C<off>>


B<default:> I<off>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Enables or disables setting cookies and logging the received cookies:

=over



=item C<on>




enables the setting of version 2 cookies
and logging of the received cookies;



=item C<v1>




enables the setting of version 1 cookies
and logging of the received cookies;



=item C<log>




disables the setting of cookies,
but enables logging of the received cookies;



=item C<off>




disables the setting of cookies and logging of the received cookies.




=back









=head2 userid_domain


B<syntax:> userid_domain I<I<C<name>> E<verbar> C<none>>


B<default:> I<none>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Defines a domain for which the cookie is set.
The C<none> parameter disables setting of a domain for the
cookie.







=head2 userid_expires


B<syntax:> userid_expires I<I<C<time>> E<verbar> C<max> E<verbar>
    C<off>>


B<default:> I<off>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Sets a time during which a browser should keep the cookie.
The parameter C<max> will cause the cookie to expire on
“C<31 Dec 2037 23:55:55 GMT>”.
The parameter C<off> will cause the cookie to expire at
the end of a browser session.







=head2 userid_mark


B<syntax:> userid_mark I<
    I<C<letter>> E<verbar> I<C<digit>> E<verbar>
    C<=> E<verbar>
    C<off>>


B<default:> I<off>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





If the parameter is not C<off>, enables the cookie marking
mechanism and sets the character used as a mark.
This mechanism is used to add or change
L</userid_p3p> andE<sol>or a cookie expiration time while
preserving the client identifier.
A mark can be any letter of the English alphabet (case-sensitive),
digit, or the “C<=>” character.





If the mark is set, it is compared with the first padding symbol
in the base64 representation of the client identifier passed in a cookie.
If they do not match, the cookie is resent with the specified mark,
expiration time, and C<P3P> header.







=head2 userid_name


B<syntax:> userid_name I<I<C<name>>>


B<default:> I<uid>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Sets the cookie name.







=head2 userid_p3p


B<syntax:> userid_p3p I<I<C<string>> E<verbar> C<none>>


B<default:> I<none>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Sets a value for the C<P3P> header field that will be
sent along with the cookie.
If the directive is set to the special value C<none>,
the C<P3P> header will not be sent in a response.







=head2 userid_path


B<syntax:> userid_path I<I<C<path>>>


B<default:> I<E<sol>>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





Defines a path for which the cookie is set.







=head2 userid_service


B<syntax:> userid_service I<I<C<number>>>


B<default:> I<IP address of the server>


B<context:> I<http>


B<context:> I<server>


B<context:> I<location>





If identifiers are issued by multiple servers (services),
each service should be assigned its own I<C<number>>
to ensure that client identifiers are unique.
For version 1 cookies, the default value is zero.
For version 2 cookies, the default value is the number composed from the last
four octets of the server’s IP address.







=head1 Embedded Variables



The C<ngx_http_userid_module> module
supports the following embedded variables:

=over



=item C<$uid_got>




The cookie name and received client identifier.



=item C<$uid_reset>




If the variable is set to a non-empty string that is not “C<0>”,
the client identifiers are reset.
The special value “C<log>” additionally leads to the output of
messages about the reset identifiers to the
L<ngx_core_module>.



=item C<$uid_set>




The cookie name and sent client identifier.




=back






