=encoding utf-8



=head1 Name

iconv-nginx-module


=head1 Description

This is a nginx module that uses libiconv to convert characters of different
encoding. It brings the 'set_iconv' command to nginx.

This module depends on the ngx_devel_kit(NDK) module.


=head1 Usage


=head2 set_iconv

B<syntax:> I<set_iconv E<lt>destination_variableE<gt> E<lt>from_variableE<gt> from=E<lt>from_encodingE<gt> to=E<lt>to_encodingE<gt>>

B<default:> I<none>

B<phase:> I<rewrite>




=head2 iconv_buffer_size

B<syntax:> I<iconv_buffer_size E<lt>sizeE<gt>>

B<default:> I<iconv_buffer_size E<lt>pagesizeE<gt>>




=head2 iconv_filter

B<syntax:> I<iconv_filter from=E<lt>from_encodingE<gt> to=E<lt>to_encodingE<gt>>

B<default:> I<none>

B<phase:> I<output-filter>

Here is a basic example:


     #nginx.conf
    
     location /foo {
         set $src '你好'; #in UTF-8
         set_iconv $dst $src from=utf8 to=gbk; #now $dst holds 你好 in GBK
     }
    
     #everything generated from /foo will be converted from utf8 to gbk
     location /bar {
         iconv_filter from=utf-8 to=gbk;
         iconv_buffer_size 1k;
         #content handler here
     }




=head1 Compatibility

The following versions of Nginx should work with this module:


=over


=item *

1.9.x (last tested: 1.9.15)

=item *

1.8.x

=item *

1.7.x

=item *

1.6.x

=item *

1.5.x

=item *

1.4.x

=item *

1.3.x

=item *

1.2.x (last tested: 1.2.7)

=item *

1.1.x (last tested: 1.1.5)

=item *

1.0.x (last tested: 1.0.8)

=item *

0.9.x (last tested: 0.9.4)

=item *

0.8.x (last tested: 0.8.54)

=item *

0.7.x (last tested: 0.7.68)


=back




=head1 Installation

Get the nginx source code from L<nginx.org|http://nginx.org/>.
Untar the source code and build nginx with this module.


     wget 'http://sysoev.ru/nginx/nginx-1.9.15.tar.gz'
     tar -xzvf nginx-1.9.15.tar.gz
     cd nginx-1.9.15/
    
     git-clone http://github.com/simpl-it/ngx_devel_kit.git
     git-clone http://github.com/calio/form-input-module.git
    
     ./configure --add-module=/path/to/iconv-nginx-module/ --add-module=/path/to/ngx_devel_kit
     make -j2
     make install




=head2 Building as a dynamic module

Starting from NGINX 1.9.11, you can also compile this module as a dynamic module, by using the C<--add-dynamic-module=PATH> option instead of C<--add-module=PATH> on the
C<./configure> command line above. And then you can explicitly load the module in your C<nginx.conf> via the L<load_module|http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#load_module>
directive, for example,


    load_module /path/to/modules/ndk_http_module.so;  # assuming NDK is built as a dynamic module too
    load_module /path/to/modules/ngx_http_iconv_module.so;




=head1 Copyright & License

This program is licenced under the BSD license.

Copyright (c) 2010-2016, Calio E<lt>vipcalio@gmail.comE<gt>.

Copyright (c) 2010-2016, Yichun Zhang E<lt>agentzh@gmail.comE<gt>.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:


=over


=item *

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

=item *

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

=item *

Neither the name of the Taobao Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.


=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.




=head1 Changelog

This module's change logs are part of the OpenResty bundle's change logs. Please see
See E<lt>http://openresty.org/#ChangesE<gt>




=head1 See Also


=over


=item *

The L<OpenResty|https://openresty.org> bundle.


=back



