=encoding utf-8


=head1 Name

resty-cli - Fancy command-line utilities for OpenResty.


=head1 Description

The C<resty> command-line utility can be used to run OpenResty's Lua scripts directly off the command-line just like the C<lua> or C<luajit> command-line utilities. It can be used to create various command-line utilities using OpenResty Lua.

This tool works by creating a head-less C<nginx> instance,
disabling L<daemon|http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#daemon>, L<master_process|http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#master_process>, L<access_log|http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_log_module.html#access_log>, and other things it does
not need. No C<server {}> is configured hence I<no> listening sockets
are involved at all.

The Lua code is initiated by the L<init_worker_by_lua|https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#init_worker_by_lua>
directive and run in the context of L<ngx.timer|https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#ngxtimerat> callback. So all of
L<ngx_lua|https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#readme>'s Lua APIs available in the L<ngx.timer|https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#ngxtimerat> callback context are
also available in the C<resty> utility. We may remove some of the
remaining limitations in the future though.


=head1 Synopsis

    $ export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/bin:$PATH

    $ which resty
    /usr/local/openresty/bin/resty

    $ resty -h
    resty [options] [lua-file [args]]

    Options:
        -c num              Set maximal connection count (default: 64).
        -e prog             Run the inlined Lua code in "prog".
        --help              Print this help.

        --http-include path Include the specified file in the nginx http configuration block
                            (multiple instances are supported).

        -I dir              Add dir to the search paths for Lua libraries.

        --main-include path Include the specified file in the nginx main configuration block
                            (multiple instances are supported).

        --resolve-ipv6      Make the nginx resolver lookup both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses

        --shdict 'NAME SIZE'
                            Create the specified lua shared dicts in the http
                            configuration block (multiple instances are supported).

        --nginx             Specify the nginx path (this option might be removed in the future).
        -V                  Print version numbers and nginx configurations.
        --valgrind          Use valgrind to run nginx
        --valgrind-opts     Pass extra options to valgrind

    For bug reporting instructions, please see:
    <http://openresty.org/#Community>

    $ resty -e 'print("hello")'
    hello

    $ time resty -e 'ngx.sleep(3) print("done\n")'
    done

    real 0m3.085s
    user 0m0.071s
    sys 0m0.010s

    $ resty -e 'ngx.say(ngx.md5("hello"))'
    5d41402abc4b2a76b9719d911017c592

    $ resty -e 'io.stderr:write("hello world\n")' > /dev/null
    hello world

To run the code example in L<lua-resty-mysql|https://github.com/openresty/lua-resty-mysql>'s
"Synopsis" documentation section:

    $ resty mysql-example.lua
    connected to mysql.
    table cats created.
    3 rows inserted into table cats (last insert id: 1)
    result: [{"name":"Bob","id":"1"},{"name":"","id":"2"},{"name":null,"id":"3"}]

where C<mysql-example.lua> is from L<lua-resty-mysql|https://github.com/openresty/lua-resty-mysql>'s docs.

Stdin also works (in addition to stdout and stderr):

    $ resty -e 'print("got: ", io.stdin:read("*l"))'
    hiya
    got: hiya

where the first "hiya" line was entered from the keyboard.

"Light threads" also work:

    $ time resty -e 'local ths = {}
                     for i = 1, 3 do
                         ths[i] = ngx.thread.spawn(function ()
                                      ngx.sleep(3) ngx.say("done ", i)
                                  end)
                     end
                     for i = 1, #ths do ngx.thread.wait(ths[i]) end'
    done 1
    done 2
    done 3

    real 0m3.073s
    user 0m0.053s
    sys 0m0.015s

User command-line arguments are also passed:

    $ resty -e 'print(arg[1], ", ", arg[2])' hello world
    hello, world

If you need to use a shared dict:

    $ resty --shdict='dogs 1m' -e 'local dict = ngx.shared.dogs
                                   dict:set("Tom", 56)
                                   print(dict:get("Tom"))'
    56

To check version numbers:

    $ resty -V
    resty 0.01
    nginx version: openresty/1.7.7.2
    built by gcc 4.8.3 20140911 (Red Hat 4.8.3-7) (GCC)
    TLS SNI support enabled
    configure arguments: --prefix=/usr/local/openresty/nginx ...


=head1 Installation

The C<resty> command-line utility is bundled and enabled in OpenResty 1.7.7.2+ by
default and is installed under C<< <openresty-prefix>/bin/ >> by default.
If the OpenResty prefix is the default value (C</usr/local/openresty>),
then you can just add C</usr/local/openresty/bin> to your PATH environment:


    export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/bin:$PATH




=head1 Test Suite

This project comes with a test suite powered by Perl's testing toolchain.

To run the test suite on your side, first install some of the CPAN modules required by the test
scaffold:


    sudo cpan Test::Base IPC::Run

Also, you need to make your nginx executable visible in your PATH environment:


    export PATH=/path/to/your/nginx/sbin:$PATH

Then you can run the tests with the C<prove> command provided by Perl:


    prove -r t

To run an individual test file, just specify the test file on the command-line, for instance,


    prove t/resty/user-args.t

To run an individual test case in a test file, just (temporarily) add the line


    --- ONLY

to the end of that test block, then run that particular test file as mentioned above.




=head1 Authors


=over


=item *

Yichun Zhang (agentzh) E<lt>agentzh@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.


=back


=over


=item *

Guanlan Dai E<lt>guanlan@cloudflare.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.


=back




=head1 Copyright and License

This module is licensed under the BSD license.

Copyright (C) 2014-2016, by Yichun "agentzh" Zhang (章亦春) E<lt>agentzh@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2016, by Guanlan Dai E<lt>guanlan@cloudflare.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


=over


=item *

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.


=back


=over


=item *

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.


=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.



